<script>
MathJax = {
  tex: { inlineMath: [['$', '$']], displayMath: [['$$', '$$']] },
  svg: { fontCache: 'global' }
};
</script>
<script type="text/javascript" id="MathJax-script" async
  src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-svg.js">
</script>

### _Draft_: Dielectric Properties from Polarization Theory

The scale-up of the electromagnetic heating requires reliable and accessible information on material response under electromagnetic field (dielectric constant) and dynamics of heat-up process that is govern by conversion/loss of electromagnetic energy to the atomistic/molecular frictional process. The literature on dielectric response measurement and modelings, particularly for particulate materials, suffer from discrepancies in reported values, even for the same material. Current observations of dielectric response suggests that material characteristics such as particle size distribution and heterogeneity, compactness, presence of grain boundaries, structural defects, phase transitions and etc. affect measured dielectric response.

In absence of reliable models to explain such observations, compiling experimental dielectric response indicates that a linear correlation in the form of $\varepsilon'' \cdot \rho = \alpha \cdot \varepsilon' \cdot \rho - \beta$ exists between the real and imaginary parts of dielectric response at every frequency. It is noted that $\alpha$ is constant for a given frequency and $\beta$ remains constant for a given material. The main theme of developing/building such correlations, however, is based on the relatively weak frequency dependency observed in the ratio of real and imaginary parts i.e. $\varepsilon' / \varepsilon''$, that collectively can be formulated as $\varepsilon' / \varepsilon'' \equiv \vartheta \cdot \tan(n\pi / 2)$ or alternatively $(\varepsilon' - 1) / \varepsilon'' \equiv \vartheta \cdot \tan(n\pi / 2)$. The parameter $\vartheta$ represents the dependency on the field frequency, where $\vartheta = 1$ corresponds to cases where no frequency-dependency is observed in data and $\vartheta = \vartheta(\omega)$ is for the field frequency dependent case. The choice of function $\vartheta = \vartheta(\omega)$ in the field frequency dependent regime resulted in a vast type of empirical dielectric response models/correlations.

The authors, in this work, discuss that such observations can be directly derived from and explained by polarization theory and therefore the relevant of polarization theory is explored against its fidelity in predicting dielectric response under time-varying external field formulated as $E = E_0 \cdot \sin(2\pi\omega t)$ (see Methods). Polarization theory offers the potential to qualitatively and quantitively explain the effect of material characteristics on observed discrepancies in dielectric response, because it reflects on microstructure/constituent, temperature, external excitations and pressure (if in fluid phase). For instance, compactness (density) affects the mobility of molecules and constituent particles, and therefore strongly affects molecular flexibility and fluctuations in molecular dipoles while reorientating to sync their natural frequency with that of the applied field. Porosity can cause non-uniformity in distribution of charge carrier and severely influence charge (induction) dynamics, especially in conjunction with presence of components diffusion, because diffusivity rates are comparable to the characteristic time of charge carriers, approx. 0.3 nanoseconds. Particles of different size create geometrical hops and tumbles, on nanoscales, that act as defects/porosity and intensify or damp adjacent components of the traveling field. These nanoscale hops and tumbles, in presence of moisture, catalyse vapor formation even in absence of any external phase transition stimuli and therefore can seed extreme effects on the dielectric response of material.

The polarization theory relates dielectric response ($\varepsilon(\omega)$) and the susceptibility ($\chi(\omega)$) of materials -- when exposed to an external field $E$ with frequency $\omega$ -- as $\varepsilon(\omega) = \varepsilon_{\infty} + \varepsilon_0 \cdot \chi(\omega)$, where $\varepsilon_{\infty}$ and $\varepsilon_0$ are the dielectric response at optical frequencies and vacuum that respectively reads $\varepsilon_{\infty} = 1$ and $\varepsilon_0 = 8.8541878128 \times 10^{-12}$ F/m. Susceptibility, $\chi(\omega)$, explains the wave-mater interactions and how the external field, $E$, induces the polarization, $P$, in the material. As opposed to absence of response inertia in vacuum interfacial charges under time-varying electric field, all the materials experience a delay as following the variations of an applied field. This delayed variation (polarisation) is a direct result of the applied field, and in the meanwhile it causes damping the field strength within the material. Depending on how fast the electric field varies -- i.e., the field frequency $\omega$ -- a number of fundamental mechanisms can be realized to contribute in/with polarization and its attributes (delay and strength). For instance, (permanent) molecular dipole moments synchronise their fluctuation frequency with the applied field slowly while the atoms respond to the varying field quite fast. These synchronizing molecular dipoles with the field can initiate lattice changes and therefore induce mechanical strains, $\varepsilon$. As the energy loss is proportional to the square of strain, one may expect appearance of *pseudo*-nonlinearity in polarization. The sum/difference-frequency generations, for example, are form of *pseudo*-nonlinearity that may appear due to scattered traces of a varying field as field travels through the material experiencing mechanical strains.

When the material is assumed to have a *linear* dielectric response, the relationship between polarization and field can be given in either (1) time domain as $dP(t) / dt = \varepsilon_0 \cdot \xi(t) \cdot E(t)$, where $\xi(t)$ is the dielectric response function, or preferentially (2) the frequency domain as $P(\omega) = \varepsilon_0 \cdot \chi(\omega) \cdot E(\omega)$. The time domain (physical space) and frequency domain (mathematical space) properties are related through a Fourier transform given as $\chi(\omega) = \int_0^{\infty} \xi(t) \cdot e^{i\omega t}\, dt$ that generates a real part and an imaginary part for susceptibility, $\chi(\omega)$, and therefore for dielectric response $\varepsilon(\omega)$. The transformation to the frequency domain successfully separates the relaxation dynamics of fluctuating moments, collectively represented by the imaginary part, that is of pivotal importance when evaluating the thermal response of material to an applied electromagnetic field. Conventionally, the dielectric response in presence of field is written as $\varepsilon = \varepsilon' \pm i\varepsilon''$ where $\varepsilon'$ is real part capturing the polarization of the electric field, and $\varepsilon''$ is imaginary part reflecting upon energy dissipation through damping the electromagnetic waves while material dipoles sync with the field. It is worthy to note that the choice of sign preceding the imaginary part, $\varepsilon''$, is arbitrary and indicates how the field frequency dependency is defined. Defining field frequency dependency with a minus sign i.e., $E = E_0 \cdot e^{-i\omega t}$, then a negative sign precedes the imaginary part, $\varepsilon = \varepsilon' - i\varepsilon''$.

The linearity assumption ($P(\omega) = \varepsilon_0 \cdot \chi(\omega) \cdot E(\omega)$) is firmly valid when the field strength is bellow $E_l = 10^6$ V/m. Beyond $E_l$, the nonlinearity in the material may start to appear and one could rewrite the relationship between polarization and field in the form of power series given as $P = \sum_{n=1} \varepsilon_0 \cdot \chi_n(\omega) \cdot E^n$ -- where $\chi_n(\omega)$ is the n-th order susceptibility. This nonlinearity is stronger than the linear response when the applied field exceeds the fundamental atomic field strength, $E_{at} = 5.14 \times 10^{11}$ V/m. Since in majority practices of microwave treatments, the use of such strong fields is avoided, it is a valid basis to accept the linearity assumption.

In polarization theory, the dielectric response can be determined by tracing the fluctuations in the total dipole moment, $M$. The total dipole moment, itself, for a system composed of $N$ charged particle, each with respective charges $q = \{q_1, \ldots, q_N\}$ at a given configuration, $r = \{r_1, \ldots, r_N\}$, is defined by $M = \sum_{i=1}^{N} q_i \cdot r_i$. An external electromagnetic field, $E$, with frequency $\omega$ can be defined as $E = E_0 \cdot e^{-i\omega t}$ and once applied to the material, the material will experience polarization of the electronic clouds and the reorientation of dipoles along $E$. The real part of dielectric response, $\varepsilon'$, under applied field can be derived as $\varepsilon' = \varepsilon_{\infty} + \frac{1}{4\pi^3} \cdot \frac{\langle M^2 \rangle - \langle M \rangle^2}{3V \cdot k_B \cdot T \cdot \varepsilon_0 \cdot E_0}$, and imaginary part is given as $\varepsilon'' = \frac{1}{4\pi^3} \cdot \frac{\langle M^2 \rangle - \langle M \rangle^2}{3V \cdot k_B \cdot T \cdot \varepsilon_0 \cdot E_0} \cdot \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega)$. Here, $V$ is the volume of material. $T$ is the temperature. $k_B$ is Boltzmann constant that reads $k_B = 1.380649 \times 10^{-23}$ J/K. The angular brackets $\langle \cdot \rangle$ indicates averaging fluctuation in the total dipole moment over all particles (and time). $\Phi(\omega)$ is the Fourier transform of the fluctuation in the normalized dipole moment autocorrelation function, $\phi(t)$, at times $t$ with respect to a time of origin, $t=0$, defined as $\phi(t) = \langle M(t) \cdot M(0) \rangle / \langle M(0)^2 \rangle$. It is worth noting that when $\omega \to 0$, then $\Phi(\omega) \to \infty$ and vice versa.

Interestingly, the previously discussed linear correlation can be retrieved as $\varepsilon'' / \rho = \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega) \cdot (\varepsilon' / \rho - \varepsilon_{\infty} / \rho)$, where $\alpha = \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega)$ and $\beta = \varepsilon_{\infty} / \rho$. Parameter $\beta$, as observed in experiments, is constant for a given material and parameter $\alpha$ is frequency dependent. Many (recent and more accurate) experimental measurements of dielectric response involve cavity perturbation technique, where applying theory concludes a similar linear correlation i.e., $\beta = \rho^{-1}$ and $\alpha = \left(F \cdot \left[ \frac{2(Q - Q_0)}{Q \cdot Q_0} \cdot \frac{\Delta\omega}{\omega} \right] - \left[ \frac{1}{2} \cdot \left(\frac{Q_0 - Q}{Q \cdot Q_0}\right)^2 \cdot \left(\frac{\Delta\omega}{\omega}\right)^2 \right]\right) / \left(F \cdot \frac{\Delta\omega}{\omega} - \frac{1}{2} \cdot \left(\frac{Q_0 - Q}{Q \cdot Q_0}\right)^2 \cdot \left(\frac{\Delta\omega}{\omega}\right)^2\right) + (V_s / V_0) \cdot A$ (see Appendix). For the correlations as in the main theme i.e., in form of $(\varepsilon' - 1) / \varepsilon''$, applying theory reads $\vartheta = \tan(n\pi / 2) \cdot \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega)$.

In search to explain discrepancies in dielectric response, literature has seen extensive attempts in finding a unifying universal correlation for dielectric response, that is yet to achieve. The dielectric constant ($\varepsilon(\omega)$) and the susceptibility ($\chi(\omega)$) are interchangeable characteristics of materials and under field $E$ with frequency $\omega$ are related to each other as $\varepsilon(\omega) = \varepsilon_{\infty} + \varepsilon_0 \cdot \chi(\omega)$, where $\varepsilon_{\infty}$ and $\varepsilon_0$ are the dielectric constant at optical frequencies and vacuum permittivity that respectively reads $\varepsilon_{\infty} = 1$ and $\varepsilon_0 = 8.8541878128 \times 10^{-12}$ F/m. The current empirically-established unifying universal dielectric response theory suggests that the ratio of imaginary part of the *first order* susceptibility, $\text{Im}[\chi(\omega)]$, and real part of first order susceptibility, $\text{Re}[\chi(\omega)]$, is either (1) constant (independent of field frequency) or (2) has a (relatively weak) dependency on field frequency. This theory is given as $\text{Im}[\chi(\omega)] / \text{Re}[\chi(\omega)] \equiv \vartheta \cdot \tan(n\pi / 2)$, where the function $\vartheta$ represents the dependency on the field frequency. Here a $\vartheta = 1$ corresponds to the frequency independent case and $\vartheta = \vartheta(\omega)$ is for the field frequency dependent case. The choice of function $\vartheta = \vartheta(\omega)$ in the field frequency dependent regime resulted in a vast type of empirical dielectric response models/correlations.

The susceptibility and dielectric constant having real and imaginary parts, has its origin in the definition of susceptibility. Susceptibility $\chi(\omega)$ explains the wave-mater interactions and how the external field $E$ induces the polarization $P$ in the material. As opposed to absence of response inertia in vacuum interfacial charges under time-varying electric field, all the materials experience a delay once following the variations of any applied field. This delayed variation (polarisation) is both (1) a direct result of the applied field, and also (2) a cause for damping the field strength within the material. Depending on how fast the electric field varies -- i.e., the field frequency $\omega$ -- a number of fundamental mechanisms can be realized to contribute in appearance of polarization and its attributes: delay and strength. For example, (permanent) molecular dipole moments synchronise their fluctuation frequency with the applied field slowly while the atoms respond to the varying field quite fast (usually in microwave frequency range). These synchronizing molecular dipoles with the field can initiate lattice changes and therefore induce mechanical strains, $\varepsilon$. As the energy loss is proportional to the square of strain, one may expect appearance of nonlinearity in polarization. The sum/difference-frequency generations are other form of nonlinearity that may appear due to scattered traces of varying field as it travels through the material, where the interplay of molecular dipoles and their associated relaxation is deterministic. Furthermore, material characteristics such as particle size distribution and heterogeneity, compactness, porosity, presence of grain boundaries, structural defects, phase transitions and etc., affect polarization as demonstrated in experimental data deviations of dielectric response.

If the material is assumed to have a *linear* dielectric response, the relationship between polarization and field can be given either (1) in time domain as $dP(t) / dt = \varepsilon_0 \cdot \xi(t) \cdot E(t)$, where $\xi(t)$ is the dielectric response function, or preferentially (2) in the frequency domain as $P(\omega) = \varepsilon_0 \cdot \chi(\omega) \cdot E(\omega)$. The time domain and frequency domain properties are related through a Fourier transform, where for the dielectric response a complex Fourier transform is used as $\chi(\omega) = \int_0^{\infty} \xi(t) \cdot e^{i\omega t}\, dt$ that generates a real part and an imaginary part for susceptibility $\chi(\omega)$, and therefore also for dielectric constant $\varepsilon(\omega)$. The linearity assumption (i.e., $P(\omega) = \varepsilon_0 \cdot \chi(\omega) \cdot E(\omega)$) is valid when the field $E$ strength is bellow $E_l = 10^6$ V/m. Beyond $E_l$, the dielectric nonlinearity in the material starts to appear and one could rewrite the relationship between polarization and field as $P = \sum_{n=1} \varepsilon_0 \cdot \chi_n(\omega) \cdot E^n$ -- in the form of power series of field $E$ -- where $\chi_n(\omega)$ is the n-th order susceptibility. This nonlinearity is stronger than the linear response when the applied field exceeds the fundamental atomic field strength, $E_{at} = 5.14 \times 10^{11}$ V/m. As in majority practices of materials microwave treatment, the use of such strong fields is avoided, then it is a valid basis to accept the linearity assumption of this form.

In the above discussion, the susceptibility $\chi(\omega)$ is treated as a *net* property that collectively reflects on, mostly, the effects of permanent molecular dipoles, lattice defects and charge carriers which are known to engage with the applied field slowly. This *net* treatment also indicates the same is true about function $\vartheta = \vartheta(\omega)$, noting to its definition, in the field frequency dependent regime. So, it should be obvious why current models are unable to mimic the actual dielectric feedback to an applied field and produce errors in estimates. To be more specific, the material compactness (density) affects the mobility of molecules and constituent particles, and therefore strongly affects molecular flexibility and fluctuations in molecular dipoles while reorientating. Particles of different size create geometrical hops and tumbles, on nanoscales, that act as defects and intensify or damp adjacent components of the traveling field. These nanoscale hops and tumbles, in presence of moisture, catalyse vapor formation and seed extreme effects on the dielectric response of material. Porosity can cause non-uniformity in distribution of charge carrier and severely influence their dynamics, especially in conjunction with presence of components diffusion, where the diffusivity rates are comparable to the characteristic time of charge carriers, approx. 0.3 nanoseconds.

This letter, therefore, first looks into the frequency dependency function $\vartheta(\omega)$ and applies nonlinear piecewise Volterra functional series to decompose it into principal physicochemical components taking into account the aforementioned material microstructure. This numerical treatment, wherever microstructure information is lacked, borrows concepts from discrete event-based methods and moment-tensor models of interatomic potentials. A large dataset of dielectric response collected from literature as well as experimentally measured by the authors is used in verification of numerical treatment. While numerical treatment is of a merely correlative nature, the decomposition process is fundamentally valid so it is applied directly on dielectric response function $\xi(t)$, assisted with hybrid molecular dynamic simulations for extracting time domain information.

The atomic orientational fluctuations in materials may lead to intrinsic dielectric properties causing material showing various electromagnetic characteristics where it may / may not engage with an applied (electromagnetic) field. The nature of these fluctuations depends on the chemicals, temperature, presence of external excitations (electric and/or magnetic fields) and pressure (if in fluid phase). The intrinsic (static) dielectric property of a matter can be determined by tracing the fluctuations in the total dipole moment, $M$. The total dipole moment, itself, for a system composed of $N$ charged particle, each with respective charges $q = \{q_1, \ldots, q_N\}$ at a given configuration, $r = \{r_1, \ldots, r_N\}$, is defined by $M = \sum_{i=1}^{N} q_i \cdot r_i$. The static (intrinsic) dielectric, $\varepsilon_{st}$, is related to the fluctuation in the total dipole moment, $M$, as given in Eq. 1, where unless for finite times, the inclusion of $\langle M \rangle^2$ deemed to be arbitrary due to rotational symmetry.

<div style="text-align: center;">

$$\varepsilon_{st} = \varepsilon_{\infty} + \frac{1}{4\pi^3} \cdot \frac{\langle M^2 \rangle - \langle M \rangle^2}{3V \cdot k_B \cdot T \cdot \varepsilon_0} \tag{1}$$

</div>

In Eq. 1, $\varepsilon_{\infty}$ is the dielectric constant at optical frequencies that reads $\varepsilon_{\infty} = 1$. $\varepsilon_0$ is the vacuum permittivity that reads $\varepsilon_0 = 8.8541878128 \times 10^{-12}$ F/m. $V$ is the volume of material. $T$ is the temperature. $k_B$ is Boltzmann constant that reads $k_B = 1.380649 \times 10^{-23}$ J/K. The angular brackets $\langle \cdot \rangle$ indicates averaging fluctuation in the total dipole moment over all particles (and time).

It is worthy to identify the frequency, $\Omega$, of these fluctuations so that proper setting for experimentally measuring dielectric properties could be decided. This is of practical concerns because exposing material to a field having lower frequency ($\omega$) than that of $\Omega$ requires a wait (lag) time of about minutes to hour for the material dipoles to sync with that of applied field and to conclude a reliable measurement of dielectric properties. One may determine the frequency, $\Omega$, through computing the Fourier transform of the fluctuation in the dipole moment autocorrelation function, $\Phi(\Omega)$. The normalized dipole moment autocorrelation function, $\phi(t)$, at time $t$ with respect to an arbitrary time of origin, $t=0$, is defined as $\phi(t) = \langle M(t) \cdot M(0) \rangle / \langle M(0)^2 \rangle$. The Fourier transform, $\Phi(\Omega)$, of function $\phi(t)$ plateaus at some $\Omega_{eq}$ (eq: equilibrium) which is the lowest frequency a dielectric measurement could be performed at, expecting an immediate material engagement.

An external electromagnetic field, $E$, with frequency $\omega$ can be shown as $E = E_0 \cdot e^{-i\omega t}$ and once applied to the material, the material will experience polarization of the electronic clouds and the reorientation of dipoles along $E$. Conventionally, the dielectric constant in presence of a field is written as $\varepsilon = \varepsilon' \pm i\varepsilon''$ where $\varepsilon'$ is known as real part capturing the polarization of the electric field, and $\varepsilon''$ is known as imaginary part reflecting upon energy dissipation through damping the electromagnetic waves while material dipoles sync with the field. The choice of sign preceding the imaginary part, $\varepsilon''$, is arbitrary and indicates how the field frequency dependency is defined. For example, defining field frequency dependency with a minus sign i.e., $E = E_0 \cdot e^{-i\omega t}$, then a negative sign precedes the imaginary part $\varepsilon = \varepsilon' - i\varepsilon''$. The real part of dielectric constant, $\varepsilon'$, under applied field can be determined using Eq. 2 (where the $\varepsilon_0$ in Eq. 1 is replaced by $\varepsilon_0 \cdot E$).

<div style="text-align: center;">

$$\varepsilon' = \varepsilon_{\infty} + \frac{1}{4\pi^3} \cdot \frac{\langle M^2 \rangle - \langle M \rangle^2}{3V \cdot k_B \cdot T \cdot \varepsilon_0 \cdot E} \tag{2}$$

</div>

The imaginary part of dielectric constant, $\varepsilon''$, under applied field can be calculated using Eq. 3, where $\Omega = \omega$ indicating the material dipoles are in sync with the applied field.

<div style="text-align: center;">

$$\varepsilon'' = \frac{1}{4\pi^3} \cdot \frac{\langle M^2 \rangle - \langle M \rangle^2}{3V \cdot k_B \cdot T \cdot \varepsilon_0 \cdot E} \cdot \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega) \tag{3}$$

</div>

Using a vast amount of experimental data for a wide range of materials, it is shown in literature that an empirically universal linear correlation in the form of $\varepsilon'' / \rho = \alpha \cdot (\varepsilon' / \rho) - \beta$ exists between the real and imaginary parts of dielectric constant, where $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are evaluated using fitting of experimental data. However, this correlation is obvious from both (1) the underlying first principles simply by combining Eqs. 2-3 leading to $\varepsilon'' / \rho = \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega) \cdot (\varepsilon' / \rho - \varepsilon_{\infty} / \rho)$ (or alternatively $\varepsilon'' = \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega) \cdot (\varepsilon' - \varepsilon_{\infty})$), and also (2) the empirical circular arc appearing in complex plane as noted by Cole. It can readily be seen that $\alpha = \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega)$ and $\beta = \varepsilon_{\infty} / \rho$. This approach is very powerful, since it can recover the empirically observed the universal linear correlation using a vast amount of experimental data for a wide range of materials -- in the form of $\varepsilon'' / \rho = \alpha \cdot (\varepsilon' / \rho) - \beta$ that exists between the real and imaginary parts of dielectric constant, where $\alpha$ and $\beta$ were evaluated using fitting of experimental data. It can be simply shown by combining Eqs. 2-3 leading to $\varepsilon'' / \rho = \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega) \cdot (\varepsilon' / \rho - \varepsilon_{\infty} / \rho)$ (or alternatively $\varepsilon'' = \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega) \cdot (\varepsilon' - \varepsilon_{\infty})$), where $\alpha = \omega \cdot \Phi(\omega)$ and $\beta = \varepsilon_{\infty} / \rho$.

This approach has been used extensively in literature for pure materials, binary diluted mixture of solute in a liquid, etc., mostly under direct current (DC) applied field and the results reported in literature remain legitimate comparing to the respective experimental data. However, applying this approach to the complex materials composed of diverse particles, under alternating current (AC) -- which redefects on the realistic scenarios -- deemed to be questionable since force fields are unable to account for charge redistribution and the (delayed) synchronization of dipoles with the applied field.

The unit cells used in simulations for each individual component were chosen in consultation with the open quantum materials database (oqmd.org). The crystal structure details are fully accessible using the ID provided in Table 1 and not listed here due to space limitations. The structures were then used to run density functional theory calculations (DFT) using ABINIT (abinit.org). The input files were modified to include Perdew-B-Ernzerhof (PBE) exchange correlation function, a k-space of $8 \times 8 \times 8$ points in each direction, and energy cut-off of 500 eV that is two times larger than the energy cut-off recommended for the individual atom potential data (based on data in VASP's POTCAR files). While larger values for cut-off recovers the exact solution in the used atomic basis set, the computational costs become exponentially expensive.

Since the field intensities are related by $E(t) / B(t) = c$, the effect of the electric field is orders of magnitude greater than that of the magnetic field. It is acceptable to approximate the heating effect of an e/m field of a given frequency and intensity with the corresponding pure electric field. To systemically generate traveling field within the material, the applied field is formulated as $E_0 \cdot \sin(2\pi\omega t)$ inducing a potential of $U_{field} = E_0 \cdot \sin(2\pi\omega t) \cdot r \cdot q$ where $E_0$ is the field strength in V/m and $\omega$ is the field frequency in Hz. $q$ is the charge of particle (Coulomb) located at position $r$. The last two terms ($r \cdot q$) assert proper units. The charge and dipole moments of particles are computed using density functional theory calculations before molecular dynamic simulations. The density functional theory calculations are done by employing the generalized gradient approximations with Perdew-Becke-Ernzerhof functional including implicit solvent as described by the Conductor-like Screening Model. To control the convergence behaviour for enhanced self-consistent field calculation, thermal smearing is also applied with double numerical basis including the d-polarization function level of theory. The double numerical basis with d-polarization incorporates diffuse functions for the proper treatment of long-range effects, which are not negligible in the present study. The convergence tolerances are: $2.0 \times 10^{-5}$ kcal/mol in energy, $10^{-3}$ kcal/mol/&#8491; in force, max iterations of $10^4$, and displacement of $10^{-5}$ &#8491;.

When a moist material is of concern, for water molecules, the four-site transferable interaction potential (TIP4P/2005) is used as it reproduces long-range dipole-dipole interactions properly. Shake algorithm is used to retain the molecular structure of water, with accuracy tolerance = $10^{-4}$ and a maximum of 20 iterations, 1 bond type and 1 angle type (as given by TIP4P/2005 model). The long-range Coulombic interactions are computed in particle-particle particle-mesh pppm/TIP4P K-space where relative error in forces is $10^{-4}$. At each temperature, before applying the field effects, the system is equilibrated under the canonical ensemble (NVT: constant number N, volume V, and temperature T) for 10ns. The time integration is applied using Nose-Hoover algorithm for non-Hamiltonian equations of motion at every timestep (dt = 1 femtosecond) to calculate positions and velocities with thermostatting at every 0.1 picoseconds. The system (entropy) is then minimized under microcanonical ensemble (NVE: constant number N, volume V, and energy E) for 10ns. The seed number used is 880713. To retain the system at specified temperature, Berendsen thermostat is applied at every 0.1 picoseconds and the Stoermer-Verlet time integration algorithm to calculate positions and velocities at every timestep.

The $\Phi(\Omega)$ plateaus at some $\Omega_{eq}$ (eq: equilibrium) which is the lowest frequency at which an experimental dielectric response measurement should be performed to expect an immediate material engagement (no lag time). Otherwise a wait (lag) time of about minutes to hour is expected for the material dipoles to sync with that of applied field and to conclude a reliable measurement of dielectric response. The $\Omega_{eq}$ is computed from this microcanonical ensemble fluctuations. Finally, the relaxed system is used to study the effect of applied field under microcanonical ensemble to allow temperature rise due to thermal energy uptake. It should be noted that the microcanonical ensemble essentially assumes the system is isolated and no energy exchange with the environment may occur, so that the energy is conserved. This (isolated system) is a valid assumption implemented for current study as corresponds to the protocols followed in experimental measurements of dielectric response. Total simulation time is decided based on the field frequency ($\omega$) ensuring at least 100 full period is experienced by the material.