### Derivation of Empirically–Observed Linearity Correlation of Dielectric Properties from Polarization Theory

Compiling vast experimental dielectric response indicates a relatively weak frequency dependency in the ratio of real (&epsilon;&prime;) and imaginary parts (&epsilon;&Prime;) that collectively had been formulated as &epsilon;&prime; / &epsilon;&Prime; &equiv; &vartheta; tan(n&pi;/2) or alternatively (&epsilon;&prime; - 1) / &epsilon;&Prime; &equiv; &vartheta; tan(n&pi;/2). The parameter &vartheta; represents the dependency on the field frequency, where &vartheta; = 1 corresponds to cases where no frequency-dependency is observed in data and &vartheta; = &vartheta;(&omega;) is for the field frequency dependent case. The choice of arbitrary function &vartheta; = &vartheta;(&omega;) in the field frequency dependent regime resulted in a vast type of empirical dielectric response models/correlations.

A frequently used alternative form is given as &epsilon;&Prime; / &rho; = &alpha; &epsilon;&prime; / &rho; - &beta; between the real (&epsilon;&prime;) and imaginary (&epsilon;&Prime;) parts of dielectric response at every frequency, normalized by the density (&rho;) of the material (often assumed constant). It has been noted that the fitting parameter &alpha; depends on the frequency while &beta; remains constant for a given material and depends only on the material density. One could go further and reevaluate the formula driven in the most recent experimental measurement techniques such as the cavity perturbation technique to show the presence of this linearity form, where these fitting parameters would take the form of &beta; = &rho;<sup>-1</sup> and &alpha; = (F &middot; [2/Q - ((Q<sub>0</sub> - Q) / (Q &middot; Q<sub>0</sub>)) &middot; (&Delta;&omega; / &omega;)<sup>2</sup> - 1 / (2Q<sub>0</sub>) - ((Q<sub>0</sub> - Q) / (Q &middot; Q<sub>0</sub>)) &middot; (&Delta;&omega; / &omega;)]) / (F &middot; (&Delta;&omega; / &omega;)<sup>2</sup> - 1 / (2Q<sub>0</sub>) - ((Q<sub>0</sub> - Q) / (Q &middot; Q<sub>0</sub>)) &middot; (&Delta;&omega; / &omega;) + (V<sub>s</sub> / V<sub>0</sub>) &middot; A) (the details of parameters can be found in the respective reference work).

Here, we used the polarization theory to show that such linear correlations can be systematically recovered without any restriction when the material is under linear dielectric response regime. In the polarization theory, the dielectric response (&epsilon;(&omega;)) and the susceptibility (&chi;(&omega;)) of materials are related – when exposed to an external field E with frequency &omega; – as &epsilon;(&omega;) = &epsilon;<sub>&infin;</sub> + &epsilon;<sub>0</sub> &chi;(&omega;), where &epsilon;<sub>&infin;</sub> and &epsilon;<sub>0</sub> are the dielectric response at optical frequencies and vacuum that respectively reading &epsilon;<sub>&infin;</sub> = 1 and &epsilon;<sub>0</sub> = 8.8541878128 &times; 10<sup>-12</sup> F/m. Susceptibility, &chi;(&omega;), explains the wave-mater interactions and how the external field, E, induces the polarization, P, in the material. As opposed to absence of response inertia in vacuum interfacial charges under time-varying electric field, all the materials experience a delay as following the variations of an applied field. This delayed variation (polarisation) is a direct result of the applied field, and in the meanwhile it causes damping the field strength within the material.

Depending on how fast the electric field varies – i.e., the field frequency &omega; – a number of fundamental mechanisms can be realized to contribute in/with polarization and its attributes (delay and strength). For instance, (permanent) molecular dipole moments synchronise their fluctuation frequency with the applied field slowly while the atoms respond to the varying field quite fast. These synchronizing molecular dipoles with the field can initiate lattice changes and therefore induce mechanical strains, &epsilon;. As the energy loss is proportional to the square of strain, one may expect appearance of pseudo-nonlinearity in polarization.

The linearity assumption is firmly valid when the field strength is below E<sub>l</sub> = 10<sup>6</sup> V/m. Beyond E<sub>l</sub>, the nonlinearity in the material may start to appear and one could rewrite the relationship between polarization and field in the form of power series given as P = &Sigma;<sub>n=1</sub> &epsilon;<sub>0</sub> &middot; &chi;<sub>n</sub>(&omega;) &middot; E<sup>n</sup> – where &chi;<sub>n</sub>(&omega;) is the n-th order susceptibility. This nonlinearity is stronger than the linear response when the applied field exceeds the fundamental atomic field strength, E<sub>at</sub> = 5.14 &times; 10<sup>11</sup> V/m. Since in majority of previous works, the use of such strong fields is avoided, it is a valid basis to accept the linearity assumption.

When the material is assumed to have a linear dielectric response, the relationship between polarization and field can be given either in (1) time domain as dP(t) / dt = &epsilon;<sub>0</sub> &middot; &xi;(t) &middot; E(t), where &xi;(t) is the dielectric response function, or preferentially in (2) the frequency domain as P(&omega;) = &epsilon;<sub>0</sub> &middot; &chi;(&omega;) &middot; E(&omega;). The time domain (physical space) and frequency domain (mathematical space) properties are related through a Fourier transform given as &chi;(&omega;) = &int;<sub>0</sub><sup>&infin;</sup> &xi;(t) &middot; e<sup>i&omega;t</sup> dt that generates a real part and an imaginary part for susceptibility, &chi;(&omega;), and therefore for dielectric response &epsilon;(&omega;). The transformation to the frequency domain successfully separates the relaxation dynamics of fluctuating moments, collectively represented by the imaginary part, that is of pivotal importance when evaluating the thermal response of material to an applied electromagnetic field.

In polarization theory, the dielectric response can be determined by tracing the fluctuations in the total dipole moment, M. The total dipole moment, itself, for a system composed of N charged particles, each with respective charges q = {q<sub>1</sub>, &hellip;, q<sub>N</sub>} at a given configuration, r = {r<sub>1</sub>, &hellip;, r<sub>N</sub>}, is defined by M = &Sigma;<sub>i=1</sub><sup>N</sup> q<sub>i</sub> r<sub>i</sub>. An external electromagnetic field, E, with frequency &omega; can be defined as E = E<sub>0</sub> e<sup>-i&omega;t</sup> and once applied to the material, the material will experience polarization of the electronic clouds and the reorientation of dipoles along E. The real part of dielectric response, &epsilon;&prime;, under applied field can be derived as &epsilon;&prime; = &epsilon;<sub>&infin;</sub> + (1 / 4&pi;<sup>3</sup>) &middot; [(&lang;M<sup>2</sup>&rang; - &lang;M&rang;<sup>2</sup>) / (3 V k<sub>B</sub> T &epsilon;<sub>0</sub> E<sub>0</sub>)], and imaginary part is given as &epsilon;&Prime; = (1 / 4&pi;<sup>3</sup>) &middot; [(&lang;M<sup>2</sup>&rang; - &lang;M&rang;<sup>2</sup>) / (3 V k<sub>B</sub> T &epsilon;<sub>0</sub> E<sub>0</sub>)] &middot; &omega; &Phi;(&omega;). Here, V is the volume of material. T is the temperature. k<sub>B</sub> is Boltzmann constant that reads k<sub>B</sub> = 1.380649 &times; 10<sup>-23</sup> J/K. The angular brackets &lang; &rang; indicates averaging fluctuation in the total dipole moment over all particles (and time). &Phi;(&omega;) is the Fourier transform of the fluctuation in the normalized dipole moment autocorrelation function, &phi;(t), at times t with respect to a time of origin, t=0, defined as &phi;(t) = &lang;M(t) &middot; M(0)&rang; / &lang;M(0)<sup>2</sup>&rang;. It is worth noting that when &omega; &to; 0, then &Phi;(&omega;) &to; &infin; and vice versa.

It is worthy to identify the natural frequency, &Omega;, of these fluctuations so that proper settings for experimentally measuring dielectric properties could be decided. This is of practical concern because exposing material to a field having lower frequency (&omega;) than that of &Omega; requires a wait (lag) time of about minutes to hours for the material dipoles to sync with that of applied field and to conclude a reliable measurement of dielectric properties. One may determine the frequency, &Omega;, through computing the Fourier transform of the fluctuation in the dipole moment autocorrelation function, &Phi;(&Omega;). The Fourier transform, &Phi;(&Omega;), of function &phi;(t) plateaus at some &Omega;<sub>eq</sub> (eq: equilibrium) which is the lowest frequency a dielectric measurement could be performed at, expecting an immediate material engagement.

Based on the equations for real and imaginary parts of dielectric derived from the polarization theory, it can easily be seen that &epsilon;&Prime; = (&epsilon;&prime; - &epsilon;<sub>&infin;</sub>) &omega; &Phi;(&omega;), from which one could show that &epsilon;&Prime; / &rho; = &omega; &Phi;(&omega;) (&epsilon;&prime; / &rho; - &epsilon;<sub>&infin;</sub> / &rho;), where &alpha; = &omega; &Phi;(&omega;) and &beta; = &epsilon;<sub>&infin;</sub> / &rho;. This retrieves the previously discussed empirically–driven linear correlation. Interestingly, parameter &beta;, as observed in experiments, for a given material only depends on the density, while parameter &alpha; depends on frequency and can capture a wide variety of physicochemical features of the material as inherited in &Phi;(&omega;) i.e. the Fourier transform of the fluctuation in the normalized dipole moment autocorrelation function. Having its roots in the polarization theory, the direct form of &alpha; offers the potential to qualitatively and quantitatively (if computed directly) explain the effect of material characteristics on observed dielectric response, because it reflects on microstructure/constituent, temperature, external excitations and pressure (if in fluid phase).

Interestingly, the observations of dielectric response suggest that material characteristics such as particle size distribution and heterogeneity, compactness, presence of grain boundaries, structural defects, phase transitions etc. affect measured dielectric response. For instance, compactness (density) affects the mobility of molecules and constituent particles, and therefore strongly affects molecular flexibility and fluctuations in molecular dipoles while reorienting to sync their natural frequency with that of the applied field. Porosity can cause non-uniformity in distribution of charge carriers and severely influence charge (induction) dynamics, especially in conjunction with presence of components diffusion, because diffusivity rates are comparable to the characteristic time of charge carriers, approx. 0.3 nanoseconds. Particles of different sizes create geometrical hops and tumbles, on nanoscales, that act as defects/porosity and intensify or damp adjacent components of the traveling field. These nanoscale hops and tumbles, in presence of moisture, catalyze vapor formation even in absence of any external phase transition stimuli and therefore can seed extreme effects on the dielectric response of material.
